#Day 6, excericses
##Josh Broomberg, session 2

1. ###Essays

 1. The routes for a rails app are recorded in config/routes.erb. Either explicitly as <http verb> controller#action or as a resource: <name>. When a request is made via a method, the URL is matched in the routing table, the controller is called and then the speicifc action is run. Each action is associated to a view in the folder app/views/<controllername>/<actionname>. This view renders content to to the screen in the browser.

 2. A schema is essentially the structure of a database/table. It contains/describes information on which fields are stored in each table, what data type each field contains and what the relationships are between tables/relations. So the data schema for articles was one table (articles) with a String title, Text body, time date added and time date edited and then another table (comments) with a similar structure plus a relational field that associated each comment with one article. A model is a programming interface for working with objects stored in a database with a single model representing a single instance of the object stored in a table (one record). In the code, Articles.all returns an 'array' of article modals each one being one row of the articles table. A database is the physical file in which information is stroed. There are different formats each with slight differences in how they store data, how they are queried etc. A DB contains many tables each with many records and is the place of permanent storage. The DB in our program was dev.sqlite

 3. When a modal is created, a file is added to the folder DB/migrate. The contents of this file are used to add (or modify) a table to/in the DB. The exact modification is the migrate file stem from the schema provided to the function that creates the modal. So, a modal is created with some schema, the modal creation process results in a file that is used to alter the schema of the DB (Eg add a table). The process of migration uses these files and applies the changes contained in them to the DB so that the modal created can be stored in it. 

2. ###Code

 1. It would establish all of the routes necessary to perform all of the CRUD operations on an object/modal called sharks. You would need to create a controller, actions, views and a modal to actually use the routes. (Note, woudl use ever creates routes, controller and views without a modal associated?).

 2. Rake routes shows all active routes in the route.rb file. It is useful because it specifies the prefix that can be used access each relevant URL, as well as the name of the controller+action that every URL refers to, and the action/verb that must be used with the url to yield that action.

 3. Firstly, the the routes.erb, there would be a line something like `root welcome#index`, combined with a view called index.html.erb in views/welcome/ to render whatever you wanted. Secondly, there would be a `resources :heroes` in config/routes.erb. This would generate the routes necessary for everything else in the sinatra file. There would be a modal called hero.rb in the folder modals, where each hero would have been created with a `String Name` and a `String power`. A migrate would have been done to add a table in the DB store this info. Under the app/controllers folder there would be a file heroes_controller.rb that would have a class `HeroesController` inherriting from `ApplicationController`. This class would have an index action that would probably contain one line of code (approx) to instantiate an instance variable and then query the DB for all the heroes. There would then be an index.html.erb file in app/views/heroes that would use the instance variable to display only the names of the heroes. Then, on this page, a link would be created using the path prefix for the url that would allow for a speciifc hero to be shown. This path would be based on a rails method that recieves the eact hero shown on the line and thus the path would be automagically setup to display that hero when clicked. The path itself would require another action the the hero controller, likely called show, that would access the ":id" field of params and use it to query a specific hero from the DB to be rendered by a view called show.html.erb. All of the above would yield the same result as the sinatra code shown above. 